xv6 is a re-implementation of Dennis Ritchie's and Ken Thompson's Unix
Version 6 (v6).  xv6 loosely follows the structure and style of v6,
but is implemented for a modern RISC-V multiprocessor using ANSI C.

ACKNOWLEDGMENTS

xv6 is inspired by John Lions's Commentary on UNIX 6th Edition (Peer
to Peer Communications; ISBN: 1-57398-013-7; 1st edition (June 14,
2000)). See also https://pdos.csail.mit.edu/6.828/, which
provides pointers to on-line resources for v6.

The following people have made contributions: Russ Cox (context switching,
locking), Cliff Frey (MP), Xiao Yu (MP), Nickolai Zeldovich, and Austin
Clements.

We are also grateful for the bug reports and patches contributed by
Takahiro Aoyagi, Silas Boyd-Wickizer, Anton Burtsev, Ian Chen, Dan
Cross, Cody Cutler, Mike CAT, Tej Chajed, Asami Doi, eyalz800, Nelson
Elhage, Saar Ettinger, Alice Ferrazzi, Nathaniel Filardo, flespark,
Peter Froehlich, Yakir Goaron,Shivam Handa, Matt Harvey, Bryan Henry,
jaichenhengjie, Jim Huang, Matúš Jókay, Alexander Kapshuk, Anders
Kaseorg, kehao95, Wolfgang Keller, Jungwoo Kim, Jonathan Kimmitt,
Eddie Kohler, Vadim Kolontsov , Austin Liew, l0stman, Pavan
Maddamsetti, Imbar Marinescu, Yandong Mao, , Matan Shabtay, Hitoshi
Mitake, Carmi Merimovich, Mark Morrissey, mtasm, Joel Nider,
OptimisticSide, Greg Price, Jude Rich, Ayan Shafqat, Eldar Sehayek,
Yongming Shen, Fumiya Shigemitsu, Cam Tenny, tyfkda, Warren Toomey,
Stephen Tu, Rafael Ubal, Amane Uehara, Pablo Ventura, Xi Wang, Keiichi
Watanabe, Nicolas Wolovick, wxdao, Grant Wu, Jindong Zhang, Icenowy
Zheng, ZhUyU1997, and Zou Chang Wei.

The code in the files that constitute xv6 is
Copyright 2006-2020 Frans Kaashoek, Robert Morris, and Russ Cox.

ERROR REPORTS

Please send errors and suggestions to Frans Kaashoek and Robert Morris
(kaashoek,rtm@mit.edu). The main purpose of xv6 is as a teaching
operating system for MIT's 6.S081, so we are more interested in
simplifications and clarifications than new features.

BUILDING AND RUNNING XV6

You will need a RISC-V "newlib" tool chain from
https://github.com/riscv/riscv-gnu-toolchain, and qemu compiled for
riscv64-softmmu. Once they are installed, and in your shell
search path, you can run "make qemu".


--------------------------------

xv6 Custom Scheduler with Nice Values

Overview

 This project extends the xv6 kernel to support custom scheduling policies, RR (Round Robin) and FCFS (First Come First Serve), along with nice value adjustments for fine-grained process priority control.

Key features:

 Custom System Calls:  
    setnice(pid, nice): Adjusts the nice value of a process.
    getnice(pid): Retrieves the nice value of a process.
    Enhanced Scheduling Policies:
    Round Robin (RR): Default policy in xv6 for time-sharing between processes.
    First Come First Serve (FCFS): New scheduling policy where processes are scheduled based on arrival time.

wait2 System Call:
    Returns detailed execution statistics for processes, including run time, wait time, and sleep time.

How to Build and Run:
    Build xv6 with Custom Scheduler
Clone the repository:

git clone https://github.com/yourusername/your-repo-name.git
cd your-repo-name/xv6-riscv
Compile the xv6 kernel:

make clean && make
Run with Different Policies
Round Robin (RR):


make qemu CPUS=3 RR
Description: This is the default policy in xv6, where processes are time-shared equally.
First Come First Serve (FCFS):

make qemu CPUS=3 FCFS=1
Description: Processes are scheduled based on their arrival time. nice values may have limited effect depending on implementation.
Test with Custom Scheduler
Run the schedtest2 program inside xv6 to verify the functionality:

(xv6)$ schedtest2
Example output:

Process 4 original nice is 10, now changed to 18
Process 5 original nice is 10, now changed to 18
Process 6 original nice is 10, now changed to 18
Process 7 original nice is 10, now changed to 18
Process 8 original nice is 10, now changed to 18
Average run-time = 20,  wait time = 122, sleep time = 90

Features
    Custom System Calls:

setnice: Adjusts the priority (nice value) of processes. Higher nice values correspond to lower priority.
getnice: Queries the current nice value of a process.
wait2: Collects detailed process statistics, including run time, wait time, and sleep time.
Custom Scheduling Policies:

RR (Round Robin): Time-sharing between processes using time quanta.
FCFS (First Come First Serve): Processes are executed in the order of their arrival.
Scheduling Tests (schedtest2):

Generates a mix of I/O-bound and CPU-bound processes.
Adjusts priorities for I/O-bound processes using setnice.
File Modifications
kernel/sysproc.c: Added sys_setnice, sys_getnice, and wait2 system calls.
kernel/proc.c: Implemented FCFS scheduling logic and extended process statistics.
kernel/proc.h: Added fields for nice value and additional statistics.
user/schedtest2.c: Test program to validate the custom scheduler.
Contributing
Feel free to submit issues or pull requests to improve functionality or add features.

License
This project is licensed under the MIT License.

Acknowledgments
Based on MIT's xv6 Operating System.